---
layout: post
title:  "LD35 4"
date:   2016-04-16-10:36
categories: LD35
---

And I'm back.  Grabbed a little second brekky- delish.

And now it's time to get serious about the main perspective issue.

So, as we all no each character on the Vic-20 is 8x8 pixels.  In double-height
chars mode it is 8x16.  Since I'm going to have to use a bitmap, I may as well
save the screen RAM and go with double height chars.

I'd like for the graphics to extend from the faaaaar left to the faaaar right,
so it will probably be a short and wide display area.  It would be nice if it
filled both PAL and NTSC viewable areas, but I'm only going to worry about NTSC
for this challenge.  So, I'm thinking about 25 chars wide and 6 (double height)
characters tall.   That gives me a bitmap of ```(25*8)x(6*16)=200x96```, which
is awkward af and obviously subject to change.

...

Just spent a good 30 minutes trying to think of a way to avoid having to do
fullscreen scrolling (vertical and horizontal)... I can't do think of one! :D
So, that's gonna be a huuuuge PITA..

So here's how it's going to have to work:

Horizontal scrolling will either be the usual ROL madness or, if that doesn't
work out (which it certianly won't without flicker or some insane tricks) I
might have to resort to half char scrolling.  If I must that will give up the
dream of a FAAAAAAR left display area since column 0 is going to have to be
masked out.  Also, it wouldn't work with a true bitmap.

Anyway.

Vertical scrolling is a little more interesting.  Objects will appear at 1 pixel
on the horizon.  The maximum size objects will reach will be 8x8 pixels.

I'll start with linear scale where objects halfway up the screen objects are 4x4
and work from there.

Since the number of rows is greater than the number of pixels in a max-size
object, we don't necessarily want to grow every line, but for simplicity I
might anyway.

Since pixels are wider than they are tall, they will scale vertically before
they expand horizontally as they get closer.  Objects will naturally move down,
so we only scale vertically by drawing "up".  

For horizontal scaling, we alternate left and right.

So our scale will look somethin' like this:

```
scroll_down(obj):
	for y in range obj:
		else if obj.lastScaled == LEFT:
			draw_r_border()
		else if obj.lastScaled == RIGHT:
			draw_l_border()
		else:
			pass
```

Note, that we do nothing to draw vertically.  We just don't erase as we normally
would.  That might work.  Or it might not.  Weeee will find out.

Anyway, this clearly isn't going to be fast enough for a terribly large # 
of objects.

Okay, time to code!

-Gummy
